The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Boy Scout Pathfinders, by Robert Maitland


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: The Boy Scout Pathfinders
       Or, Jack Danby's Best Adventure


Author: Robert Maitland



Release Date: April 14, 2021  [eBook #65084]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOY SCOUT PATHFINDERS***


E-text prepared by Juliet Sutherland, Susan Carr, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team (https://www.pgdp.net)



Transcriber’s note:

      Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

      Text enclosed by equal signs is in bold face (=bold=).




Boy Scout Series Volume 6

THE BOY SCOUT PATHFINDERS

Or

Jack Danby’s Best Adventure

by

MAJOR ROBERT MAITLAND

C






The Saalfield Publishing Company
Chicago      Akron, Ohio      New York

Copyright 1912
by
The Saalfield Publishing Co.




                              CONTENTS


                                                                   PAGE
      I  HO! FOR THE ADIRONDACKS                                     3
     II  THE LOGGING CAMP                                           12
    III  THE OLD SNAKE HUNTER                                       26
     IV  THE FIGHT                                                  35
      V  THE BEAR’S SURPRISE PARTY                                  42
     VI  THE PLOT                                                   50
    VII  TRAPPED IN THE CAVE                                        58
   VIII  THE BOY SCOUTS TO THE FORE                                 66
     IX  DICK CRAWFORD GIVES WARNING                                77
      X  “BUSY AS BEAVERS”                                          87
     XI  THE BOG                                                   100
    XII  OLD SAM TO THE RESCUE                                     108
   XIII  THE BROKEN TRESTLE                                        117
    XIV  THE SAVING OF THE TRAIN                                   124
     XV  A STRANGE DUEL                                            132
    XVI  TOO LATE!                                                 139
   XVII  JACK’S RUN FOR LIFE                                       148
  XVIII  BALKED OF THEIR PREY                                      154




                      The Boy Scout Pathfinders




                              CHAPTER I

                       HO! FOR THE ADIRONDACKS


“Ding-dong! Ding-dong! Ding-dong! Ding-dong!” clashed the great bell
on the locomotive, and with much creaking and clanking and letting
off of steam, with iron scraping on iron and one last, long drawn
whistle of the air-brakes, the train came slowly to a stop.

As if vying with the locomotive to see which could make the greater
noise, a score or more of khaki-clad boys came tumbling to the
platform of the little mountain station, amid whoops and cat-calls
and shouts of, “Here we are!” “Hurrah for the Adirondacks!” “Say,
fellows, this is the backwoods and no mistake!”

And then in rapid succession came the further inquiries:

“Which way do we go? Up this road?”

“See that big rock away down there? I’ll race you to it!”

The big collie Don, not to be behindhand when there was any noise or
capering to be done, and more glad than anyone else to be released
from the many hours of close confinement in that awful baggage car,
ran wildly about, darting in and out between the boys’ feet, at the
imminent danger of upsetting the whole procession, and added his
joyful bark to the general noise and confusion.

A couple of boys did go down, but were at once on their feet and
after Don, who--knowing and wise dog that he was!--understood well
that his pursuers were his loyal friends, as he was theirs, and felt
no fear, but ran and doubled, and ran on again, treating it all as
the very best kind of a joke.

A half hour of racing and tearing to given points and back again,
and impromptu games of leapfrog and follow my leader gave vent to
the bubbling spirits held in check during the long journey and the
Scouts, once more looking like self-controlled boys instead of
cavorting wild Indians, settled down to a walk.

This was the opportunity for which Mr. Durland had been waiting to
discuss plans for the season’s camp.

The call to camp had been sent out so late that most of the Scouts
knew little beside the location and duration of the camp; and now
Scout-Master Durland proceeded to enlighten them.

Late in the autumn of the previous year Mr. Scott, a very
wealthy gentleman, had purchased a large section of land in the
Adirondacks--many, many acres of ground, nearly a whole county, in
fact.

As it was late in the season, he had been forced to postpone the
inspection and surveying of the tract until the next year, but in
order to be ready early in the summer, he had had a stout log house
erected, to serve as a shelter for whomever should be sent out for
the survey, and after that as a temporary hunting lodge until a
larger and more elaborate one should be built.

Mr. Scott and the Scout-Master were warm friends, and knowing the
proposed plans for the new lands, Mr. Durland had suggested making
the work the object of the Boy Scouts’ summer camp. Mr. Scott, a firm
believer and warm advocate of the Boy Scout movement, had readily
consented.

Because there was more or less danger in this region of encountering
a bear, or even a wildcat, and as a rattlesnake was not altogether an
impossibility, it was thought advisable to use the lodge as sleeping
quarters instead of the usual tents or lean-tos. A large shack would
have to be built for a mess tent, and a place to store provisions.

This tract of newly purchased land was in a section uninhabited for
a distance of many miles around, as far as had been ascertained. The
county town was twelve miles away--not too far for an occasional
trip for provisions, but as the mountain roads were steep and rough,
making the going very difficult, an unusual amount and variety of
provisions had been sent with the Troop. One or possibly two trips
during the season would be all that would be necessary to keep the
camp well stocked.

So much for the camp-building and welfare. Now for an explanation of
the work laid out for the Scouts by Mr. Scott.

They were to be pathfinders in this hitherto almost totally
unexplored region. They were to locate springs, brooks, streams,
lakes, perhaps rivers; note the kinds of fish to be found in these
waters and in what numbers; make lists of the different trees, birds
and animals to be found upon it, and to group and classify them.
They were to ascertain the nature of the soil in different sections,
explore by-paths, and outline the best and safest and shortest routes
to the section where any desired water or soil or bird or animal was
to be found.

Beside all this, they were to become so familiar with the country for
five miles around the camp as to be able to guide any person at any
time, day or night.

A great work, surely, and one which, if well and satisfactorily
handled, might well cause any boy’s heart to leap with pride.

The Scouts, sober enough now, had listened with absorbed interest to
all that Mr. Durland had said. At the mention of bears and bobcats,
every boy had felt his heart thrill. Was there a possibility of a
real encounter with one of these animals which, when seen even in
the zoo, had been terrifyingly fierce? Mr. Durland had said that the
possibility was so small that it was hardly worth considering, but
that there was even the faintest chance was enough to make your heart
beat faster.

However, when he spoke so earnestly of the great work outlined for
them, and showed the eager Scouts what splendid opportunities for
mental growth it would open to them, and what a part this knowledge
they were sure to gain would play in their future success in life,
each Scout determined to do his very best and to make the most of
every opportunity.

So, at last, just at high noon, they came to the place where they
were to pitch their new camp, and again the excitement broke out.

Catching sight of the log house or lodge, with one accord they made
for it, and in a great deal less time than it takes to tell it, every
nook and corner of that house was explored.

They saw with satisfaction that the building was very strong, and
that the many windows, beside being set with very thick glass, were
provided with perforated shutters of inch-thick solid oak wood,
closing from the inside. Ben Hoover expressed the general sentiment
when he said, “Those shutters certainly look good to me!”

Mr. Durland’s voice reminded them that if everything was to be made
shipshape in the new camp before nightfall, there was no time now to
play, and from that moment the camp was a busy scene.

The two Scouts who were detailed as cooks were soon busy making
a small fireplace on which to cook their dinner. Placing three
stones together, they laid between them some whittled shavings for
kindlings, applied a match and, as the fire commenced to burn, they
placed over it some twigs and dry wood, quantities of which lay
scattered about, and soon had a fine fire over which to place their
frying-pan.

In the meantime the hamper was opened and when, in shorter time than
you could have thought possible, the call to dinner was sounded,
everyone came running. No one needed a second call, and the way that
bacon and crisp fried potatoes and cornbread disappeared was a marvel.

Dinner over, one small squad was detailed to unpack, while all the
rest were pressed into service to build the mess shack. This was
finished by five o’clock, and then each Scout gathered branches of
the fragrant balsam and hemlock for his bed. Over these he spread his
rubber blanket, and over that his sleeping blanket, and he had a bed
soft and springy and comfortable enough for a king.

Everything being in first-class order at last, and ready for the
night, a tired, hungry lot of boys gathered around the supper table.
As they ate they talked of their impressions of the new camp site,
eagerly discussed the probable adventures they would have, and then
someone asked Scout-Master Durland what kind of animals they would be
likely to find here.

Mr. Durland smiled and said he would rather they would find that out
for themselves.

“Well,” said Jack Danby, “from what I have read, I am dead sure there
is one little animal who lives up here whose acquaintance I shall be
very glad to make.”

“What is that?” eagerly asked Bob Hart.

“The otter,” replied Jack.

“Oh,” said Bob, disappointedly, “there’s nothing so very interesting
about an otter!”

“Perhaps,” said Jack, smiling, “after you have had a chance to see
him in his home and at work, you will change your mind. I know you
will, for he is one of the most interesting of animals. In certain
parts of England, especially near rivers, there used to be a great
many otters, and some of the fishermen trained them to catch fish for
them.”

“Say, Jack, you really don’t believe that, do you?” said incredulous
Bob.

“I have to believe it if it is true,” said Jack.

“How can they be trained to do that?” asked Tom Binns.

“Well,” explained Jack, “it is something like this. A string was tied
about the otter’s neck in a sort of slip-knot that could be lightened
when the trainer wished. Then the trainer would say, ‘Come here!’ and
pull on the string, so that the otter would be drawn toward him.

“This was done several times, until the otter connected the action
with the words, and then the string was dropped and he came
obediently without it at the words of command.

“Next a small, artificial fish was made and placed on the ground
before the otter, the string pulled until he opened his mouth, when
the fish was placed in it, while at the same moment the words, ‘Take
it!’ were uttered. It would be a long time before he would learn to
do this, but when he did, the string was again used while he had the
fish in his mouth and the command, ‘Drop it!’ was given.

“At last he learned to obey these two commands without the use of
the string. Then he was taken to the edge of the water and a small,
dead fish thrown in and the command given him to take it. He at once
seized it, and at the word, ‘Drop it!’ yielded it to his master.

“Next live fishes were thrown in, and when he had brought them, the
heads were given to him as his reward, and the little fisherman was
always ready for his work. In fact, one entire family was supplied
with food for a long time in this way.”

The result of this story was to make all the Scouts wish that they
might have a chance to make Mr. Otter’s acquaintance.

As everybody was very tired, it was decided to make no camp-fire
that night, so after the roll-call all were glad to throw themselves
upon their beds of fragrant balsam. They found them deliciously
comfortable, and many a tired New York millionaire, tossing
sleeplessly on his luxurious couch, might have envied these sturdy
Scouts as they sank at once into the sleep that is the reward of
a healthy body, a clear conscience, and muscles tired with honest
effort.

Once in the night Mr. Durland was aroused by a sleep-bound voice
asking, “Are those shutters closed? There might be a bear!” But no
bear more formidable than Ursa Major peeped through the holes of
the shutters, and sweet, restful sleep held the tired Scouts in her
embrace.




                             CHAPTER II

                          THE LOGGING CAMP


The Scouts arose early the next day, in order to be able to march
during the cool morning hours, and so escape the torrid middle part
of the day, which is especially hot during the short northern summer.

But although hot after the sun is up, the nights seem all the colder
by contrast. Fortunately, the Scout-Master had foreseen this and had
provided for it by insisting that each Scout carry a warm woolen
blanket. To many of the boys this had seemed a waste of energy at the
time. Who on earth could want a blanket at that time of the year,
they argued.

The first night in camp, however, proved the wisdom of Mr. Durland’s
course, and they were glad enough to wrap their blankets around and
around them and lie close to each other for the sake of warmth.

Ben Hoover expressed the general feeling when he said, “We must all
be crazy with the heat, I think. By this time we ought to realize
that Mr. Durland knows what he is talking about.”

It had been arranged that today they would make a visit to a logging
camp which lay about five miles in a westerly direction from their
camp.

All the Scouts were eager to see the lumber camp, and so stepped off
smartly at the word of command from Scout-Master Durland. If left to
themselves, most boys would probably have run the first part of the
way, but these Scouts knew that five miles through the woods on such
a day as this promised to be was not any laughing matter, so they
went along slowly.

This did not suit Don, but he submitted with good grace, like the
Scout and gentleman he was. He usually traveled about three miles to
every one that the boys made, anyway, darting off on his own doggish
errands and returning with a wise look on his face. Whatever anyone
else thought, he evidently considered his expeditions of the utmost
importance.

Today, however, he restrained his exuberant feelings, and walked
along sedately with the rest of his Troop, his magnificent brush
waving slowly from side to side. Even when a squirrel darted across
the path, he curbed his ardent desire to chase it, and Jack petted
him lovingly on the head.

“You’re just as good a Scout as any of us, aren’t you, old boy?” he
asked. “Even if you haven’t taken the Scout oath, I know well enough
that you would if you could. When it comes right down to having good
principles, I guess you are as good as any of us!”

“Perhaps you’re right,” said Mr. Durland, who had overheard the last
part of his remark. “If every man had as good and upright instincts
as that dog, the world would be a better place than it is now.”

Jack saluted, and said respectfully, “Yes, sir, I guess it would.”

It seemed no time after that until they were surprised to come
suddenly upon an opening in the woods, and Mr. Durland said, smiling,
“Well, Scouts, we have arrived! While you are here, I want you to
keep your eyes and ears open, and learn all you can about logging.
Everything you see will be interesting, so I have no doubt you will
have a good time. Remember, we are to make a report on what we see,
so we want to be on the job. Now, forward, march!”

The Scouts defiled out into the open, and started down the rough path
toward the camp. This was situated at the bottom of a hollow, where
it was sheltered somewhat from the wintry blasts.

As the Scouts approached, they saw that it was composed of two rough
log buildings, one considerably larger than the other. The larger
structure was the bunk house, where the lumberjacks ate and slept,
and the smaller one was the cook house, or kitchen.

As the boys came nearer, they could see the cook’s helper, or cookee,
as he was called, standing outside the door, washing an immense pile
of dishes. He was engaged in a hot argument with the cook, who was a
peppery little French Canadian.

“What you tink, by gar?” the latter was shouting as they got within
hearing distance. “You tink I am goin’ to cook for dees here bunch of
hungry pigs, an’ den help you wash dishes, also? Mon Dieu! What you
take me for--what you call zee easy mark?”

“There, there, Frenchy, keep your hair on!” replied the cookee, a
red-headed lad about the same age as the Scouts, and then added,
with an exasperating grin, “If I couldn’t cook anything better than
the sour dough biscuits and the sinkers you turn out, I’d be ashamed
to take the boss’s good money! Why don’t you get a job in New York
driving an ash cart? You’d look nifty in one of them white uniforms,
and then you wouldn’t have a chance to kill off any more poor
lumbermen with your bum grub! That’s what I’d do if I was you!”

This seemed to drive the excitable Frenchman nearly frantic.

“Pig! Dog! Vile one!” he screamed. “Is it zat you would mock me,
child of ze gutter?”

The grinning boy appeared to take pleasure in teasing the peppery
cook, and finally the latter seemed to go quite mad with rage. He
grasped a huge wooden spoon from a table beside the door, and
made a clumsy rush at his assistant. The nimble boy easily eluded
him, however, but once or twice let the cook get so near him that
the little man felt encouraged to keep up the chase in the hope of
finally catching him. At last his breath gave out, and he came to a
standstill and shook his fist wildly in futile rage.

“That’s right, Frenchy, fan the air all you please,” shouted the
evidently delighted youngster. “It does you good, and doesn’t hurt
me, so we’re both happy.”

“Wait, wait, zat is all!” gurgled the cook, his face purple. “Soon
ze boss, he will come back, and zen you will see, little devil! He
will--what you call it? Make ze punching bag of you! Who will be
happy zen? I will laugh at you, so, ha-ha!”

“Go ahead, laugh, old boy, it will ease your mind!” said the boy,
whom the cook had so aptly described. “It may save you from having
apoplexy and croaking. Fat old guys like you often go off just like
that!” and he grinned and snapped his fingers.

The outraged cook could think of nothing to say to this crowning
insult, and retired into his shack, muttering a string of variegated
profanity. After a short interval the boy returned to his
dish-washing, but kept a wary eye on the door, prepared to cut and
run at the first sign of danger.

The Boy Scouts had been interested spectators of this scene, and now
Mr. Durland stepped up to the boy who had been the cause of all the
trouble, and said, “Can you tell me, my lad, where I can find the
foreman, if he is in camp?”

“The boss is away just now,” replied the boy, civilly enough. “Wot’s
yer business with him? Shall I tell him you were here?”

“That depends on when he will be back,” replied Mr. Durland. “Do you
think he will be here soon? If so, we will wait for him.”

“I guess he will, if you want to see him bad enough to wait,”
answered the boy. He seemed willing enough to oblige, and Mr. Durland
felt sure that he was not a really bad boy, although it is safe to
say that the cook would not have agreed with him.

“Who’s them guys with you?” asked the boy, but with a note of respect
in his voice that was seldom heard there.

“That is a Troop of three Patrols of Boy Scouts,” explained Mr.
Durland.

“Boy Scouts?” echoed the boy. “I knew a feller once who was a Boy
Scout, and he said it was nifty to be one. He said I could be one,
too, if I wanted to, and I did, but I thought he was just kidding me.
How is a guy like me, what can’t even talk straight, goin’ to be a
Boy Scout?”

“There’s no reason on earth why you shouldn’t be one, if you really
desire it,” said Mr. Durland, kindly. “You can soon learn to ‘talk
straight,’ as you call it, and once you have taken the Scout oath,
everything else will come of itself.”

The Scout-Master then went on to explain just what being a Boy Scout
meant, and the boy listened attentively. When he spoke about the
Scout oath, the boy inquired:

“Just what is the oath, mister?”

“It is the oath that every boy desiring to become a Scout must take,
and once having done so, he must stick to it through thick and thin,”
explained Mr. Durland.

“Well, I know now that I will want to join, but could I have a little
time to think it over?” inquired Harry, for so his name proved to be.

“Why, surely!” replied Mr. Durland, cordially. “We wouldn’t hurry
you in your decision for a moment. We will be in the camp off and on
quite a while, and you can let me know of your decision at any time
that suits you best. Just take your time, my boy, and think it over.”

“I will, sir,” replied Harry, gratefully, and turned again to his
seemingly endless task.

The Scout-Master rejoined the boys, and they all started on an
inspection of the camp. As they walked, Mr. Durland told Jack and
Dick Crawford about what the red-haired boy had said, and they were
as pleased as he over the prospect of gaining a new Scout, when
in this part of the country nothing had been further from their
thoughts.

The clearing in which the logging camp was situated covered several
acres, and was hemmed in closely by giant trees. Some of these had
already been nicked by the woodcutter’s axe, which marked them as the
next victims to the demands of advancing civilization.

Not far from the camp ran a river, or at least what was a river at
certain seasons of the year, though now it was little more than a
large brook. The boys could hear it murmuring through the trees, and
suddenly Tom Binns said:

“Say, fellows, I wonder if there’s any place around here that we
could take a swim? It’s getting pretty hot, and I for one feel as if
a good swim would do me all sorts of good.”

There was a general shout of approval, and the Scout-Master said,
“Why don’t you see if you can discover a pool of some kind?”

This was no sooner said than done, and the boys, accompanied by Don,
were plunging pell-mell through the underbrush in the direction of
the river. Soon they emerged on the bank of the stream, and after
their hot run the thought of a plunge in the cool, shady river was
pleasant indeed.

Running along the bank, they discovered a place where a fallen forest
giant had formed a natural dam, and the water was several feet deep.
It was not two minutes before every Scout was in the pool, and oh,
how grateful the cool, clear water felt! They splashed around, and
in one place the better swimmers found it deep enough for diving.

“Say, isn’t this a bully place?” shouted Jack.

“Bet your sweet life it is!” shouted one.

“I just guess yes!” agreed another.

Mr. Durland remained on the bank with Don beside him. He could see
that the dog wanted to jump in with the boys, but felt that he ought
not to leave the Scout-Master alone. So Mr. Durland picked up a dry
stick and, showing it to Don, said, “Here, boy, fetch it back!” and
threw it into the stream.

In three bounds Don had reached the brink of the pool and dashed in,
covering the boys with spray. In less time than it takes to tell, he
had grasped the stick in his strong, white teeth, and clambered up
the bank.

Pausing only long enough to give himself a shake, which sent a
miniature shower into the air, he ran proudly up to the Scout-Master
and dropped the stick at his feet. Mr. Durland patted his wet head
approvingly, and this performance was repeated several times, much
to the delight of both boys and dog. When it came to swimming, Don
could beat any of them, and the water seemed almost to be his natural
element.

But time was passing, and at last the boys had to climb out
reluctantly and dress.

“Gee,” said Bob Hart, “we’ll have to try to get down here as often as
we can,” and this sentiment was heartily echoed by the others.

They now proceeded to the camp, and when they reached there found
that the foreman, Mr. Flannigan, had arrived a few minutes before.

Mr. Durland introduced himself, and handed the foreman a letter from
Mr. Scott. With many grimaces and mutterings Mr. Flannigan finally
deciphered the letter and, looking up, remarked:

“Shure, an’ Mr. Scott says as how yer all right, an’ by the same
token, whativer Mr. Scott says goes around here, him bein’ the boss.
What kin I be doin’ fur ye, sir?”

“Why, nothing very much,” answered Mr. Durland with a smile. “We are
commissioned by Mr. Scott, as he no doubt tells you in his letter, to
get the lay of the land around here and make a report to him. While
we were about it, I thought it would be a good chance to give my
Troop some idea of what a logging camp is like.”

“Shure, an’ it’s glad I’ll be to do what I kin fur yez,” said
Flannigan, scratching his head. “But, bedad, it’s a poor time o’ the
year to see a loggin’ camp. Most of the brave b’ys is in town or
scattered around further north. At this time o’ the year ’tis little
we do besides nickin’ the trees for the fall cut. Howiver, if I’m not
mistaken, here come the b’ys now fur supper, an’ if ye don’t mind
rough table manners, we’ll soon have a bite to eat. Here, cook!” as
that individual bustled past, “set up an extra table in the bunk
house for the b’ys here. More’s the pity, it’s not much we’ve got to
offer ye, but such as it is, there’s never any lack, and I guess ye
kin make out.”

By this time the lumbermen had arrived at the house, and the boys
thought they had never seen a stronger or more healthy set of men.
The sun had tanned their bearded faces to a deep brown hue, and as
they dropped their heavy axes into a corner, it was easy to see that
each one was as strong as two ordinary men.

They all muttered a “How d’ye do” to Mr. Durland, and took their
seats around the rough table in silence.

Obedient to instructions, the cook had stretched a wide plank between
two barrels, and this served Mr. Durland and his Troop as a table.
The boys were not in a mood to be critical, and so long as they got
something to eat, did not care much what kind of a table it was
served on.

Harry, the red-headed cookee, now entered, bearing a huge platter
of steaming beans. This was followed by other dishes of biscuits,
doughnuts and great cups of black coffee.

The lumbermen fell to with a rush, and it was wonderful to see the
way in which the eatables vanished. They ate like famished wolves,
and the Scouts, hungry as they were, almost forgot to eat, and could
only stare at the spectacle and wonder how the men ever did it.

However, you may be sure that their own hunger soon asserted itself,
and, as Ben Hoover expressed it, they began to “feed their faces.”

The food was very good in its way, and the boys made a hearty meal.
The lumberjacks, however, were through almost before the Scouts had
begun, and had gone outside, there to smoke their pipes and swap
yarns of perils by wood and water.

Soon the boys followed them, and ranged themselves on the grass,
listening to the whoppers that the inventive men told. It must be
admitted that most of the yarns had some foundation of truth, but
on this had been reared an elaborate structure of events that had
happened only in the imagination of the man telling the story.

After a while they started singing a rough lumberman’s song, and some
of the boys joined in the chorus. Tom’s clear, piercing voice rang
out above the thunderous bass of the men like foam on the crest of
the wave, and when they had finished, the men gazed at him admiringly.

“That there kid,” said one great, bearded fellow, who at one time had
been a cowboy on the western plains, “is sure goin’ to be some shakes
as a singer when he grows up. I bet he’ll be in opry some o’ these
days. I knew a feller on the Panhandle as could sing like that oncet,
but he _would_ borrow hosses as didn’t belong to him, and so we all
strung him up one fine mornin’. It sure seemed a shame to strangle
that voice of his’n, but it had to be did.”

He gazed meditatively out over the tops of the trees, and a big
fellow called Pete said:

“Say, boy, why don’t you bane give us a song?”

Tom was about to refuse, when Mr. Durland said, “Go ahead, Tom. Sing
_My Old Kentucky Home_, won’t you?”

Thus encouraged, Tom drew a deep breath and started the Southern song.

In the hush of the great north woods, his wonderful voice floated out
in liquid melody, and the men sat entranced. Visions of childhood
days, when they had sat at some distant fireside, came up before
them, and more than one hardened “scrapper” felt a lump rise in his
throat and his eyes grow moist.

As the song was finished there was a short silence, and then someone
said in a husky voice: “Say, kid, that was great! I’ll bet your
father is proud of you. I would be, if I was your dad! Sing some
more, will yuh?”

Tom sang song after song, until it was almost dark, and the Scouts
were forced to leave.

All the men followed the boys to the edge of the clearing, and here
they parted.

“Youse b’ys has given us an iligant evenin’, bedad, and it’s us that
thanks ye, although we can’t do it in none of them flowin’ speeches
like the poetry fellers does. All we kin say is as how we hope ye’ll
come early and often, and stay late.”

There was a hearty chorus of, “We sure will!” and “Much obliged, Mr.
Flannigan!” from the boys, and as Mr. Durland shook hands with the
boss of the camp, he said:

“We certainly have been royally entertained, Mr. Flannigan, and want
to thank you for it.”

“Shure, an’ it’s yourselves that has done the entertainin’,”
responded the foreman, with a comical grin.

“Well, good-night, everybody!” shouted the Scouts in chorus, and were
answered by a good-natured mumble from the deep-chested woodmen.

“Forward, march!” called Scout-Master Durland, and the Boy Scouts
started on their return journey.




                             CHAPTER III

                        THE OLD SNAKE HUNTER


The boys--Jack, Tom and Bob--set off one morning at the
Scout-Master’s direction for the bluestone quarries situated about a
mile from the lodge. Don rushed joyfully ahead, barking at squirrels,
who looked at him tantalizingly from safe retreats in the trees,
chasing rabbits into their burrows, and making himself altogether
disagreeable to the astonished inhabitants of the forest.

The way to the quarries was not an easy one. The boys had to climb
over great rocks, descend the steep sides of mountains, slipping and
sliding most of the way; they had to make a path through stout vines
that reached from tree to tree and seemed determined not to let them
pass. Still they went steadily forward, for what Scout would ever
think of complaining or, worse yet, of turning back with a task half
done?

Finally they saw before them through the trees a small hut before
which an old man of strange appearance was standing. He wore an old
brown hunting suit, so old and threadbare, in fact, that the boys
wondered how it ever managed to hold together; his leather leggings
were strapped securely just below the knee. In his hand he held
an implement that looked like a pitchfork, but which had only two
prongs, and in his mouth was a huge pipe that sent up a cloud of
smoke at every puff. And although his face was all criss-crossed with
wrinkles, the few people who knew him forgot all about that when they
caught the kindly gleam of his dark eyes, which were just as keen and
bright at sixty as they had been at twenty.

Don trotted up and down and regarded the old man, with one paw raised
and his head cocked inquiringly on one side, confident of welcome.

“Waal, I’ll be durned!” said the old fellow scratching his head in
perplexity. “If that dog ain’t the image of my Rover what got drowned
down in the river yonder a year ago come Monday! Seems like he might
almost be Rover’s sperret; that is, ef I was to believe in sech
things. Come here, doggie, an’ ’splain yerself! One minnit ye ain’t
there an’ next minnit ye air! Whar be ye from?” and he laid his hand
gently on the big dog’s head.

Just then the boys came into the cleared space in front of the cabin
and saluted the old man courteously.

“Waal, you be pow’ful fine youngsters,” he said, fairly beaming with
delight at the unexpected visit. “Be this your doggie?”

“You bet your life he is!” Bob asserted, proudly. “Jack here is his
real owner, but we all have a part interest in him. We come from the
Boy Scouts’ camp about a mile back,” he went on to explain, “and
we’re bound for the bluestone quarries.”

“Waal, I’ll be durned!” again said the old man, knocking the ashes
out of his pipe. “Seems to me I heerd somethin’ ’bout a boys’ camp
t’other day when I was down in town. Layin’ out that new ’state or
whatever you call it, beant you?”

“Yes, we’re locating lakes and brooks and different kinds of trees,
and we’re getting great fun out of it, too,” Jack replied; then
added, “I’m afraid we’ll have to get along, fellows. We’ve got quite
a way to go yet.”

“What’s your hurry, boys? ’Tain’t so often Old Sam has company drop
in to see him that he’s glad to see ’em go. Why can’t ye stay and
hev a bite o’ somethin’ to eat with me? I am bound for the quarries
myself to get the ile from any o’ them pesky snakes what are fools
enough to let me ketch ’em. I kin show you a durn sight better road
there than any you know of.”

The boys, who had brought some lunch with them, were only too glad to
accept Old Sam’s kind invitation. Don, who had felt a lively regard
for the old man from the first minute he looked at him, trotted
contentedly into the cabin with the rest.

The old man was so happy to have someone to talk to that he kept up
a continual chatter as he put the frying-pan on the stove and sliced
some bacon.

“You see,” he was saying, “it was like this, boys. We had had a
turrible late spring same’s we’ve had this year an’ the river was
pow’ful swollen an’ angry like, along o’ the snow meltin’ an’ comin’
down from the mountains. Waal, my Rover an’ me, we wuz walkin’ along
when all o’ a sudden we heerd a child screamin’. Sez I to Rover, sez
I, ‘It’s ’bout time, my boy, that we wuz findin’ out the meanin’ o’
that there scream.’

“Rover seemed like he wuz o’ the same opinion, cuz before I had time
to git the words out o’ my mouth, away he went like a streak. When I
got to the river, I see my Rover gather hisself together and spring
into the river, makin’ straight fer a little patch o’ white that I
took fer a child’s dress. It didn’t take long fer me to git my coat
off and foller him, let me tell ye!”

The boys, deeply interested, waited impatiently while Old Sam turned
a slice of bacon, and then continued, reminiscently:

“Waal, by the time I had fit my way as fur as from this stove to the
door, I see Rover comin’ back with a little piece o’ white in his
mouth. He swum much slower and feebler than he done at fust, and I
could see that the strain was tellin’ on him turr’ble. I swum as fast
as I could to meet him. Purty soon up he come, stickin’ on to that
piece o’ white like he would sooner give up his own life than let go,
but when he looked up at me so pitiful like I--I----” Here the old
man choked and drew his hand hastily over his eyes, stealing a glance
at the boys to see if they had noticed his weakness, but finding them
all looking in the other direction, then, putting the bacon on the
table, he went on:

“Waal, I put out my hand to take hold o’ the little child, an’ Rover,
he let go jest too soon and the little one went under. I dove down,
and soon felt the dress in my hand. When I got to the top, I jest
nat’ally looked to see whar my Rover wuz, but I couldn’t see him
nowhere. It hurt me turr’ble to go in without findin’ him, but I
knowed my strength wouldn’t hold out much longer, so I had to use it
while there wuz any left. Waal, I never could remember how I swum
the rest o’ the way to shore, but I got thar some way, an’ found a
crowd o’ people thar, glad enough to take the child after I had saved
it. They told me how brave I wuz, too, but I turned on ’em, kind of
fierce like, an’ said:

“‘It wuzn’t me as done it! It was my Rover, and he’s dead now. Dead,
d’ye hear that?’ an’ then I jest walked away with my heart gone clean
out o’ me. Ye see, my Rover wasn’t a water dog. He jest nat’ally
hated the water, but the big, brave heart o’ him----” Here the old
man’s voice grew husky, while Don, wistfully watchful, nestled close
to him, looking up into his face with a great longing to comfort
expressed in his beautiful eyes.

“Aye, lad,” and the voice was still unsteady, “aye, lad, ye have the
look o’ my Rover!”

More than one of the boys dashed his hand across his eyes as he
looked at the lonely old man with his arms around their Don’s neck.

In a moment Old Sam had pulled himself together, and called to the
boys to “fall to,” upon which the boys brought forth their baskets
and promptly carried out Old Sam’s suggestion. They avoided further
mention of Rover, but their thoughts were often drawn back to the
tragedy and in their hearts was a very tender spot for Rover’s master.

After dinner they all set out for the quarries. Sam, as he insisted
upon the boys calling him, was as good as his word, showing them a
much shorter road than the one they had intended to follow. In a
short time they reached the quarry, and found they were in time to
see some of the blasting done.

“Ye see,” Old Sam said, “owin’ to the late spring, all the snakes
hasn’t left their snug bedding places in the rocks, but when the men
comes around with their blastin’ the durned reptiles thinks it’s
’bout time fer them to be movin’. Ye wouldn’t believe it,” he went
on, “but some o’ them critters curls up in a great big bunch durin’
the winter so’s they kin keep warm, and when they gits their walkin’
papers, it’s as easy as rollin’ off a log to ketch ’em, they take so
long to get untangled.”

“But how do you catch them?” Jack had asked eagerly. “Isn’t there
great danger of your being bitten?”

“Not much; ye have to be pow’ful keerful, that’s all. Ye see, I gets
behind one o’ them snakes and sticks the two ends o’ this here pole
in the ground, one on one side o’ his neck jest below the head, an’
the other on t’other side. Then I stoops over and picks him up by the
neck, and drops him head first into this here leather bag. Then when
I gets him home, I kills him and gets the ile.”

This interested the boys intensely, and they could not wait to see it
done. They stood awhile watching the blasting when they had reached
the quarry, and then Old Sam suddenly cried out: “See that? Look over
there by them rocks! No, this way! That’s right! Now d’ye see that
reptile? Come along, and I’ll show you how I kin ketch ’em.”

Excitedly the boys followed Sam across the rocks until he said, “Stay
there! Don’t come a step further. Now jest watch yer Uncle Sam!”

So saying, Old Sam was off down the rocks, climbing as nimbly as a
boy. With breathless interest the boys watched as he drew near a
snake that lay basking in the sun. Without an instant’s hesitation,
he slipped up behind it, plunged his pronged stick hard on the ground
on either side of its neck and, stooping over, picked it up quickly
just behind the head and threw it bodily into his bag. Then, closing
the bag tight, he clambered up once more beside the admiring group of
Scouts.

“You sure are a wonder!” said Tom, and the praise came from the
bottom of his heart.

“I don’t think I’d have the nerve to try that,” said Tom Binns, who
always had had a fear of snakes.

“Waal, ’twan’t much to do,” Old Sam protested, pleased beyond
measure, nevertheless, by the boys’ hearty and open admiration.

After they had examined the quarries thoroughly, the party started
out once more. When they reached Sam’s cabin, he urged them to come
and see him often, to which the boys agreed eagerly, and exacted a
promise from him in return that he would come and spend a day with
them in camp soon.

So, with a last gentle pat on Don’s head, Old Sam watched the boys
out of sight among the trees, and then turned with a happy sigh to
enter his cabin.

“Them boys sure are fine lads, an’ the dog--waal, he did have the
looks o’ my Rover!”

The boys went happily along, talking about the interesting events of
the day, full of wonder at Old Sam’s courage and skill.

That evening around the camp-fire, they told an interested group of
boys about the old snake hunter. Tom Binns, who had been especially
interested in the story of Rover’s death, turned to Don where he lay
in his usual place beside Jack, and whispered softly: “Don’t you go
and get drowned like poor old Rover, boy, ’cause if you do, we sure
would have to break camp! We can’t get along without our mascot, old
fellow!”




                             CHAPTER IV

                              THE FIGHT


As is usually the case with men who live close to nature, the
lumberjacks in Mr. Scott’s logging camp possessed many rough virtues,
and, it must be confessed, some equally strong vices.

Among these might be numbered an inordinate love of fighting.
And fighting among these elemental natures was not the honorable
stand-up-and-fight-and-don’t-hit-a-man-when-he’s-down style of combat
that our Scouts were used to considering it.

On the contrary, the one thing that the lumberman desired was to
put his opponent out of the running, either by fair means or foul.
And, indeed, the tactics employed were considered all right by their
comrades, so in a way it could not be said that they fought by
underhand methods. They knew what they had to expect, and so it was
“up to them” not to be taken unawares.

“Everything went,” no matter what it was. A man might kick, bite, or
gouge his adversary, and if he tripped, might even jump on the fallen
man, without being criticized by his companions. Just to win, in any
way, was their one great aim and object.

But if they had been allowed to follow their tendencies unchecked
there would have been little work done around the camp, as a large
part of the working force would have been disabled a good part of the
time.

To prevent this, the foreman, Flannigan, had issued strict orders
against fighting of any kind.

“The first one of yez that Oi catch at it, Oi’ll lick meself,
begorra, and fire him afterward,” had been his ultimatum and the men,
knowing him for a famous “scrapper” and a man of his word, had kept
the peace up to today.

But there had always been a smouldering animosity between two of
the men and this morning it threatened to burst forth into a “real
knock-down rumpus,” as the lumbermen described it.

The two lumberjacks in question were named respectively Larry O’Brien
and Jacques Lavine. As may be inferred from the names, the former
was a strapping red-headed Irishman, with a big bull neck and small,
twinkling, blue eyes.

The Canadian, on the other hand, at first glance seemed to be much
the physical inferior of the two. He was a lighter man and more
slenderly built, but from constant outdoor work his muscles had
become like steel wires. So that if the men should at any time come
to blows, as now seemed very probable, they would be a pretty evenly
matched pair.

It was unusually hot weather, and that may have had something to do
with the ill-temper in which the men found themselves. For another
thing, work had been slack recently, and that is always bad for men
who are not used to it. Indeed, the same thing may be said in regard
to all of us. The man who does not have to work reasonably hard is to
be pitied.

To cap the climax, the foreman was away on a trip to the distant town
for supplies, and this fact further relaxed the reins of discipline.

If either of the two men had been called on to give a reason for
their hatred toward each other, the chances are that they would have
been hard put to it to give an adequate reply.

Their feud had started in some little slighting allusion to the
other’s nationality, and small things had led to larger, until now
they both felt that they must settle the question of supremacy once
for all.

As is commonly the case with those who are of such an irritable and
trouble-seeking nature, they were really the two most worthless men
in the camp. They both drank heavily whenever they got the chance,
and were continually shirking their work and picking quarrels.

It is safe to say that if they had put half as much energy and time
into their work as they did into grumbling and quarreling, they would
have been valuable men.

Both were strong and skillful in the handling of axes, and could
bring a forest giant to the ground as soon or sooner than anyone else
in the camp. It is too bad that in this world of ours there is so
much misdirected energy, which if deflected into the proper channels
would do so much valuable work.

As has been said, on this particular morning the men all felt out of
sorts, and, to make things worse, the cook had burned the biscuits.

“It’s always the way,” grumbled O’Brien, who was usually called
“Red,” both because of the color of his hair, and also on account of
his red-hot temper, “them French cooks never is no good, nohow! I for
one never heard of a---- frog-eater who ever was any good, anyhow,”
he continued, casting a meaning glance in Lavine’s direction.

Lavine rose slowly from his seat, an ominous scowl on his dark face.

“You mean to say, den, Irishman, zat you tink no Frenchman be any
good? Is zat what you say?”

“Ye guessed right foist time, Frenchy,” replied O’Brien, recklessly.
“Now, what ye gonna do about it, hey?”

“Dog!” hissed the Frenchman, his eyes flashing and his dark face
livid with rage. “I will show you who ees your master!” and he leaped
across the rough table and struck O’Brien a tremendous blow on the
jaw.

Any ordinary man would have dropped like a log, but the hardy
Irishman only reeled a little from the terrific buffet.

“So that’s how ye feel, is ut?” he grunted, and they fell to
belaboring each other in good earnest.

The rest of the men were delighted at this turn of affairs and
quickly formed a ring around the combatants.

Neither man was very popular in the camp, so the men could enjoy the
fight without having to worry about which one conquered. All they
cared for was to see a rousing fight, and their desires seemed in a
fair way to be gratified.

Both men were in the pink of condition, and for a long time neither
seemed to gain any advantage over the other.

They swayed backward and forward, exchanging terrific blows that
echoed on their chests like the beating of a drum. No sound was heard
save their labored breathing and an occasional encouraging cry from
one of the men. It seemed as though no man could live through such
punishment, and finally both were forced to rest through sheer lack
of wind.

Then they fell to again, and this time employed all the rough-house
tactics that they knew. Lavine suddenly brought his spiked shoe down
on the Irishman’s foot with all the force at his command, and the
latter gave a bellow of pain and rage. He retaliated by lowering his
head and butting it into the pit of Lavine’s stomach. The Frenchman
gave a gasp and reeled for a moment, but quickly recovered and
returned to the attack with tiger-like ferocity.

There is no telling how the fight would have ended, for here there
was a diversion. Flannigan, the foreman, had returned to the camp
after his trip to town, and with one quick glance realized what was
going on.

With a yell he charged the group of men, who made a path for him with
rather sheepish looks on their faces. He grabbed one by each shoulder
and threw them apart.

“Pfwat the Dickens do ye mean by this, ye shpalpeens?” he shouted,
angrily. “Didn’t Oi say that Oi’d have no fighting in my camp? If yez
want to scrap, go and do it in some other camp. Yez can’t do it here!
Ye’re fired, both of yez! Pick up yer duds and vamoose! Beat it now,
before Oi lick the two of yez! Get!”

The two men were entirely taken back by this, for, as is usual
with men of their type, they had an exaggerated idea of their own
importance and had not believed that Flannigan would really discharge
them. When they realized that such was actually the case, however,
their first astonishment changed to rage and resentment. Their common
plight caused them to forget their recent quarrel and they were drawn
together by their natural grudge against Flannigan. They regarded
him with black scowls and then entered the bunk house to get their
things.

“Who’d have thought the old cuss would take it that way?” growled
O’Brien.

“He’ll live long enough to regret it, by gar,” snapped Lavine,
grinding his teeth, “but not much longer. No man can fire me, Jacques
Lavine, in dat way and live to boast about it. No, sar!”

“We’ll get hunk on him, all right,” muttered “Red.” “We’ll show him
that he can’t get away with anythin’ like that! Yes, by thunder, we
will!”

“Sure ting!” assented the Frenchman, and the look in his eyes was not
good to see. He was the kind of man that would not stop at anything,
and it is safe to say that O’Brien would not be far behind him in
anything he might undertake.

The two worthies packed their blankets and, after drawing the money
due them, set out from the camp. As they reached the edge of the
clearing they both looked back, and Lavine shook his fist at the
rough log houses.

“We’ll get square wiz ze whole bunch,” he said, with a furious oath,
“old Scott and all of zem! Wait, dat’s all!”

“Right you are, Frenchy,” growled O’Brien. “Shake on that,” and with
black thoughts in their hearts they entered the forest.

What plots they laid and how they failed to take Jack Danby into the
reckoning will be seen a little later on.




                              CHAPTER V

                      THE BEAR’S SURPRISE PARTY


“And bang! bing! bang! went Billy’s gun, and that was the end of
_that_ bear.”

The words came clearly, distinctly to Dick Crawford swinging
along through the cool, green, glorious forest; but as he looked
wonderingly around, not a trace of the speaker could he see.

The words had been uttered in a clear, boyish voice, but if a boy had
been there, he must have vanished into a hole in the ground, or been
spirited away by the woodland brownies, for no sign of a boy could he
see anywhere.

Dick stood perfectly still and listened with all his might, but not
a human sound could he hear. Other sounds there were in plenty. The
soft gurgling of the little brook that wound down the mountain side,
and at its deepest part the quick splash of an otter, as, his small
head glistening in the light, he swam rapidly across. There was the
low murmuring of countless insects, the soft rustle of leaves as a
frightened jack-rabbit scurried to his burrow. In the branches of a
tree near by he could hear the twitter of a mother bird as she fed
her nestlings, and directly over his head, in the spreading branches
of a giant oak, two squirrels scolded noisily, very noisily, _too_
noisily it all at once seemed to Dick, and, looking up keenly into
the branches over him, he said quietly:

“A very good imitation of a squirrel, fellows! The only fault with it
is that it is _too_ good, too awfully good! Come down out of that,
and give an account of yourselves.”

At this there was a great commotion overhead, and with, “Ain’t he
smart?” “Too smart!” “_Altogether_ too smart for us,” a little group
of noisy Scouts slid recklessly down the scraggy trunk of the old
oak, and Dick was surrounded.

“We were some tired,” a Scout said to him, “so we thought we would
wait for you in the tree. Just as you came in sight Bob was finishing
a most exciting bear story.”

“It’s fine and dandy up in that tree,” said Tom. “Let’s go up again
for a while.”

Dick looked doubtful, for their time was not their own, and they must
give an account of it to the Scout-Master; but Jack told him that
they had really been working very hard for two hours, and he thought
a twenty minutes’ rest was what the fellows needed. So as Dick gave
the word, five boys scrambled and climbed back like monkeys into that
tree before you could have said “Jack Robinson!”

Comfortably settled, the talk went back to the all-absorbing topic
they were discussing when Dick arrived, and one of the fellows asked
Jack what he would do if he should stumble upon a bear.

“If I were well armed,” said Jack, “and knowing, as I do, how to
shoot, I would face him and defend myself. If I should meet him
to-day, I should race for the nearest hut or cave or anything I could
get behind or into, and thank fortune that I was lucky enough to find
such a place.”

Some of the Scouts were inclined to think that would be rather
cowardly and were for taking their chance of fighting with a club or
anything they could lay their hands upon. Jack gave them a gentle
reminder of Bruin’s by no means gentle claws and his ferocious nature
by running his finger nails energetically down a Scout’s leggings and
uttering a most savage growl. At the same moment Dick threw his arms
around the nearest fellow and gave him a genuine bear’s hug till he
begged for mercy.

After this demonstration, there was a general coming round to Jack’s
view. Some of the Scouts hoped they _would_ see a bear, and some
hoped they would not; but even those who hoped they would felt way
down in the bottom of their hearts that they could manage to live
without it. After all, they hadn’t “lost any bear.”

Time was up now, so the Scouts slid nimbly back to solid ground,
and they were off to locate and make a list of the different trees.
Already that list was a creditable one, but they had an hour yet to
work before starting back to camp, and they were anxious to make it
long enough to show to the Scout-Master with pride.

Aside from this desire, the trees themselves--the great, noble,
splendid trees--appealed to them, and made the study of them an
ever-increasing delight.

They had located, marked and listed great sturdy oaks towering
seventy, eighty feet toward the sky, and one old giant measured one
hundred and twenty feet in height. The Scouts felt very small as they
looked up with awe at the towering branches of this monster tree.

Then there were beech trees, with their smooth, ashy gray bark, about
the same height as the oaks, but not to be compared with them in
usefulness, although as firewood they are perfect, as are the hickory
trees. They (the hickory) and the chestnut trees need no description.
What boy does not claim a close acquaintance with them?

Here rose a colony of butternut trees, not so tall, but with large,
beautiful leaves measuring from fifteen to thirty inches in length,
and the air was redolent with the fragrance of pine and balsam and
hemlock.

From group to group of trees the Scouts went, examining, studying,
listing, so happily and thoroughly interested in this delightful
work that everyone started at a sudden cry of alarm in Tom’s voice.

All turned, and at that moment saw the little fellow run out from
a clump of low bushes and fairly flying toward them, call out
bravely--not “Help me!” but “Run, boys, run, run! There is a bear
coming!” and from the bushes lumbered a bear, really of medium
size, but looking to the startled boys at that moment as big as an
elephant, and loped along only a few rods behind Tom.

“The nearest tree and up it!” was their first instinct, and Bob Hart
and Harry French, who were nearest to Tom, seized him by an arm on
either side and pushed and pulled him up with them into the tree. The
whole thing had been so sudden and the scare so great that there had
been no time for sober thought, but only the blind instinct to seek
the first place of refuge. But just as they were settling themselves
in the spreading branches, a thought occurred to Jack that made his
face whiten and his heart beat faster.

“Say, Dick,” he said, “we all forgot that a bear could climb. We’ve
done just exactly what he wanted us to do!”

All the boys were seized with panic. Sure enough, they were trapped.
They were only boys, after all, and face to face with a peril that
might well have struck terror to grown men; it is no wonder that for
a moment they were smitten with panic.

The bear himself soon dispelled any doubt as to his intentions
and, swinging along heavily to the foot of the tree, reared on his
hind paws and began to climb. There were no weapons in the party,
unless you could apply that term to the small, light hatchets that
they carried in their belts. Even these were only toys against such
an enemy. One or two of the boys snatched at them frantically and
threw, but the branches of the tree interfered with their aim and it
was only Dick’s hatchet that struck with its blunt end the nose of
the bear. Beyond a slight shake of the head, he gave no sign of it
hurting him, and steadily kept on climbing.

The boys had pushed their way out along the branches as far from the
trunk as possible, and just at this moment the branch on which Harry
French was moving suddenly cracked, broke, and he found himself lying
face down full length on the ground about twenty feet from the foot
of the tree. The bear heard the crash and, seeing one of his enemies
thus delivered into his hands, scrambled hastily back down the tree
and started toward Harry. There was only one thing for the boy to do,
and, being a Scout, he did it; he lay perfectly still.

The bear, surprised at the quiet of the motionless figure, hesitated
just a moment, but that was long enough for Jack Danby, who was
perched on a branch just overhead, to decide what to do.

His plan was only a forlorn hope and he knew if it failed it probably
meant the loss of his life as well as Harry’s, but what could he do?
“A Scout is brave.” And he simply could not stay there and see Harry,
dear old Harry, attacked without an effort at least being made to
save him.

It was a time for desperate measures. With a silent prayer for help,
he jumped quickly and landed, as he had schemed to do, squarely upon
the bear’s back. Now Jack was no featherweight. Nearly nineteen years
old, he was tall and well developed, weighing much more than an
ordinary young fellow of his age.

The effect upon the bear was startling. When this weight came
crashing down upon him like a thunderbolt, he was seized with
consternation, and, forgetting everything else in his panic, he
rushed away as fast as his legs could carry him, and that was
very fast, for, though a bear’s movements give an impression of
clumsiness, he can move like a streak, as many a one has learned
to his cost when trying to escape. Jack, who had rolled over and
over, jumped up quickly and ran to where Harry still lay, not daring
to move. His fall had shaken him badly, but no bones were broken,
although now that the danger was over the terrific strain made him
tremble like a leaf.

The Scouts had joyfully watched the bear out of sight and, fearing
that he might recover from his fright and return, slid down the tree
and all started off thankfully for the camp.

Their path led along a natural hedge of high-growing bushes, and
suddenly they heard gruff voices on the other side. They caught the
name of Flannigan, the foreman, coupled with an oath. The words that
followed halted them in their tracks and they stood like statues.




                             CHAPTER VI

                              THE PLOT


“Zen we shall knife heem--we shall keel heem!” came over the hedge in
accents undeniably French.

“Naw!” was the reply, in a heavy brogue. “We won’t kill him--that
would be too aisy fur him! He’ll sweat more if yer let him live.
We’ll do fur him! We’ll fix him so that it’ll be many and many a long
day before he’ll set foot to the ground, and thin, begorra, mayhap
wan foot will be farther from the ground than the ither!”

The boys had no choice but to listen. Bob, who was nearest the hedge,
could look through a small opening and plainly see the two ruffians
seated on the ground with heads close together in deep and dark
converse with each other.

They were an ill-assorted pair. Their different nationality made
them totally unlike in outward appearance--one a great, ruddy, burly
Irishman, the other a slight, dark, wiry Frenchman. Utterly opposed
to each other by nature, their common desire for vengeance had drawn
them together and, for the time being, made them pals.

At first, their one thought and desire was vengeance. They had room
in their angry hearts for nothing else. Both were naturally cruel,
and on the day of their discharge they had shaken angry fists at the
camp, and through the days of idleness that had followed they had
thought only of the punishment they would wreak on their enemy, the
foreman.

To waylay him in the woods, to get their eager hands upon him, to
beat him into pulp, and in the end perhaps to take his life--this had
been their one object and aim.

But now a new element entered into their desire for vengeance. For
days after their discharge they had roamed the woods. At first they
had made a visit to the county town, and there with the reckless
improvidence of their kind, had feasted and drunk and gambled away
every dollar of their pay, drawn on that last day in camp, and then
had taken to the woods.

Since then they had lived on berries and roots, and an occasional
bird which they had managed to snare. With a bent pin and a line made
of twisted fibers of long grass, and with worms for bait, they had
caught some fish, but their living was scanty and poor.

Accustomed to the plain, but well cooked and abundant food of the
camp, days of this meagre diet had told upon the two. Especially was
it felt by O’Brien, for his great, muscular frame needed nourishing
food, and food in plenty.

While their tobacco lasted, it had not been so bad, but as their
hunger grew, their ferocity grew, and, added to their desire to
punish the man they considered their enemy (it never occurred to
them that they were their own worst enemies) came a determination to
obtain money, no matter how.

Why should other people be sitting down three times a day to tables
loaded with things good to eat and drink--the very thought made their
mouths water!--and lie down every night on soft, comfortable beds,
while they nearly starved and slept on the hard ground at night?

The thought of Flannigan having plenty of food and tobacco and all
other needed comforts filled them with ferocious rage and hate.

Money they _would_ have, and mighty quick, too! And a plan to obtain
it had come to both men at almost the same moment--Flannigan and the
payroll!

It was the custom of the foreman to take a trip to the Junction, a
station on the railroad about ten miles from the logging camp, where
the station agent always had ready an express package containing
several thousand dollars, to be used to pay off the men, and to
defray the expenses of the camp.

This trip was always taken on the last day of the month, and now that
was only five days away!

What a thought! What fools they had been not to think of it before!
To be able to get revenge and at the same time secure what was to
them a fortune, to revel and drink and gamble to their heart’s desire!

“Be gobs!” said Larry, “that’s the finest scheme that iver came down
the pike!”

“It sure ees!” said the little Frenchman; and then they fell to work
in good earnest to arrange their wicked plot.

“There’s only wan road back to camp, as yez well know, Jacques, me
mon,” said Larry, joyfully. “An’ do yez moind the sharp turn in the
road about six miles this side o’ the Junction?”

“Oui, I know heem!” said Jacques.

“Well, that’s the spot to do the job,” said Larry. “If he wuz on
foot, he might take the short cut back to camp, but with the buggy,
he can’t hilp himself goin’ round by the road.”

“Dat ees goot; dat ees bien goot!” said the little Frenchman. “Before
he can say one petit word, we will have heem by ze t’roat, and zen--”
Here Jacques, in an excess of fiendish exultation at the thought of
having his enemy at last in his power, rolled over and over in the
grass, and then, springing to his feet, executed a series of clumsy
steps and only stopped when, his limbs failing him, he dropped
breathlessly to the ground, while Larry sat grinning at his pal,
fully sympathizing with him in his delight at so soon realizing the
success of their scheme.

Again Jacques’ greed for the money gave place to his hatred of
Flannigan, and with darkening face and cruel eyes, he raged:

“Chien! Pig! Dat he should tink to fire me, _me_, Lavine, a son of ze
great French republic, and nevaire hear notink again!”

Larry waited a minute for him to calm down a little, and then went on:

“Whin we have done fur him, we’ll divide the long green aiven, and
thin make thracks fur Canada. Once in there, Jacques, me b’y, we’re
outside the United States, and they’ll not be able to find us.

“Whin Flannigan comes around the turn of the road, you go fur the
horse’s head, and I’ll tackle Flannigan. In wan minnit, before he
knows what’s happenin’, I’ll----”

Just what more O’Brien might have said was never known, for just then
Don--blundering old Don, seeing a jack-rabbit poke his head out from
behind the roots of a great tree, found the temptation too strong
to resist, gave chase and raced the rabbit across the grass in full
sight of the plotters.

The Scouts, who all this time had been standing motionless, their
hearts beating faster and faster as the details of the plot were made
plain to them, and with faces on which horror was clearly written,
were filled with consternation at this unexpected move of the dog.
They now quickly skirted the bushes and, slipping among some thickly
growing trees, found a little bypath and ran rapidly along it, on
their way back to camp.

As the big dog bounded after the rabbit and into the bushes, within
ten feet of them, the plotters sprang to their feet, filled with
alarm.

“Someone ees list’ning to our talk,” said Jacques. “What ees eet that
we shall do?”

“Look around and find them,” Larry replied. “You look in the trees on
that side, and Oi’ll go over to that short cut thim Scout spalpeens
take to their camp.”

The two searched all around on both sides of the hedge, but finding
no trace of anything human, returned to the scene of their conspiracy.

“But certainly there ees somebody has been here, and he have hear
what we have say,” said Jacques, uneasily.

“If it was anybody, it, was thim B’y Scouts, bad cess to thim!”
grumbled Larry; and then, as if thinking aloud, he went on:

“If it was thim measly Scouts, they’ll blab from a ‘sinse of juty,’
as I heard wan of thim say oncet, just as soon as they reach camp,
and the nixt thing they’ll do ‘from a sinse of juty’ will be to
warn Flannigan. But let thim thry it! Jist let thim thry it!” he
sputtered, full of rage at the thought that the Boy Scouts, whom
he despised, might, by warning the logging camp, be the means of
bringing to naught their carefully thought out plans.

“But zey shall not,” said Jacques. “We--you, Larry O’Brien, and I,
Jacques Lavine--_we_ will stop zem! Eet ees that we shall find a way.”

“We will that!” the Irishman said. “And Oi’ll tell yez how we’ll do
it. From the first minnit the Scouts are out in the mornin’ till they
are in camp agin at noight, we’ll lie along the road to the loggin’
camp and watch, and the first Scout spalpeen that shows his face
anint it, we grab him. Oncet we git our hands upon him, Oi’ll bet yez
any amount yez want that he’ll wish he’d niver been born! His own
mither won’t know him when she sees him!”

“_Varmint!_” said the “son of the great French republic.” “Zat makes
me ver’ glad--ver’ happy! Zat ees what we shall do!”

So they talked; and, having arranged all to their wicked
satisfaction, went their way.

As soon as the Scouts reached camp, they made a full report to the
Scout-Master of their adventures. When he heard the details of their
encounter with the bear, his hearty words of praise for Jack’s heroic
act found an echo in the heart of every Scout in camp.

Jack modestly insisted that it was no more than any Scout would have
done if he had been given the same opportunity. While the boys tried
to tell themselves that this was true, they admired Jack none the
less. They _might_ have done it, but Jack _had_ done it, and that
made all the difference in the world.

At the recital of the details of the plot against Mr. Flannigan, the
Scout-Master looked very grave indeed. Knowing how unrestrained the
passions of the class of men employed at the logging camp were, and
how brutal and cruel they could be, he fully realized Mr. Flannigan’s
danger.

Of course, there was only one thing to do. He must at once send a
Scout to the logging camp with a letter to the foreman, giving him
full particulars of the plot and warning him of his danger.

So, intending to send Jack Danby and Tom Binns immediately after
breakfast the next morning, he went to his tent to write the letter.




                             CHAPTER VII

                         TRAPPED IN THE CAVE


Don opened his eyes, yawned, and then got up from his comfortable
bed, shaking himself and stretching to his heart’s content. Trotting
over to Jack’s cot, he stood regarding his master, doubtful whether
or not to wake him. Finally deciding that it must be time to get
up, he stuck his cold nose into Jack’s hand, and uttered his low,
good-morning bark, as Jack sleepily opened his eyes.

“Time to get up, old fellow, is it?” he said, pulling Don’s front
paws up on his cot, while Don’s plumy tail waved vigorously. “Well,
I’m not specially stuck on it, but ‘needs must when the---- ’”; then,
turning to Don, he said, reprovingly, “You mustn’t say things like
that, Don; it’s not nice.”

Here Tom chimed in, saying with a stifled yawn, “What time is it,
anyway? It seems to me as if I had just gone to bed, and here you are
talking about getting up!”

“Blame it on Don,” said Jack, cheerily. “He woke me up, and he says
it’s about time for us lazy humans to be getting a move on.”

“Well, of course, what Don says goes,” Tom responded, caressingly
pulling Don’s ear as the dog went over to him, for Tom came second in
the big collie’s regard.

“Say, that was a narrow escape we had yesterday, wasn’t it?” asked
Tom, reverting to the overheard plot of the day before. “There’s no
telling what those fellows would have done if they had found out that
we knew all about their plans of revenge.”

“Whom do you suppose Mr. Durland will pick out to go to the lumber
camp to-day?”

“I haven’t the least idea,” Jack replied. “I’d like nothing better
than to go myself. After I’d warned Mr. Flannigan of his danger,
perhaps he would show me around the camp. It would be great fun, for
I’ve always wanted to go over one thoroughly, but have never had the
chance. We only got a glimpse of it the other day.”

“If you went, you could count on me to go, too, and old Don,
here--he’d never consent to being left behind, would you, boy?” To
which Don promptly gave a decided negative.

Although the boys had been talking in whispers, it was just enough
to arouse the rest of the Scouts, and in a twinkling the lodge was
filled with sleepy boys’ voices.

“I don’t want to get up,” complained one.

“I don’t, either! Nothing would suit me better than to stay just
where I am for a couple of hours!”

“I wish I could take a dip and lie in the sun until I was dry, the
way Don does. He never has to bother with clothes.”

However, a Scout’s sense of duty is always stronger than his love
of ease, so in a few minutes the boys all filed out to take their
morning plunge. It was only a few minutes until each Scout, refreshed
by a dip in the cold water, and filled with the joy of living,
rushed to the mess tent and began his day in a way approved from the
beginning of time.

After the bedding had been aired and the cots made up, the boys were
called together by the Scout-Master’s shrill whistle. They were then
divided into squads, and each squad was assigned some special work
for the day that was always play to the wood-loving boys.

“I think,” Mr. Durland said, “that since Jack knows the woods so
thoroughly, he had better be the one to warn Mr. Flannigan of the
plot. I suppose,” he added, turning to Jack, “that you want Tom to go
with you, as usual, and of course Don couldn’t be kept in camp while
you were out of it. If I were you, boys, I’d start right away, so
that you can get back to camp early.”

With that the boys saluted, and with eager haste went into the lodge
to get their things ready for the hike.

“Come on, Tom! Come on, Don!” Jack shouted a minute later as he led
the way through the woods. “Let’s see how quickly we can get to the
lumber camp. Sure, we’ll break the record. Ouch!” he exclaimed after
a minute, turning to look frowningly at the plant that had pricked
him.

“What do you suppose that is, Jack?” he asked. “I don’t remember ever
studying a plant like that.”

“Guess you don’t! That’s one of the plants that grow near a bog--I
forget the name of it now. We’d better look out, though, if we’re
anywhere near a bog. I’m not over-anxious to take a mud bath,” Jack
replied.

“We’d be mighty lucky if we got off with nothing worse than a mud
bath. If we once got mired in one of those swamps, the chances would
be two to one that we would never get out alive,” said Tom, and then
added suddenly: “Where’s Don?”

“Blessed if I know!” said Jack, while his face began to take on a
worried expression. “He can’t be very far off, though. He was here
just a minute ago. Here, Don; here, Don--where are you, old fellow?”
he called, but no joyous bark answered the well-known voice.

Then Tom put two fingers between his teeth and sent forth a shrill
whistle that echoed and re-echoed through the trees. This time, to
their great relief, they were answered, and in a moment more Don
himself came bounding up to them. His relief showed in his voice as
Jack patted his favorite on the head and said, “We thought you might
be stuck in the swamp, Don. Don’t go away like that again, will you,
old fellow?” And Don readily promised.

They started on again, this time with much greater caution than
before. Whenever they came to ground that looked the least bit
suspicious, they skirted it very carefully. Don had kept close to his
master’s side as he had promised, although at times it was very hard
for him to keep from chasing the squirrels and rabbits that looked at
him in such an aggravating way. Finally one reckless little chipmunk
scurried along almost under Don’s nose, and it was more than dog
nature could stand. With a bound he was off after the little fellow,
who, frightened by the sudden onslaught, fairly flew to the shelter
of his hole and left Don to bark away his vexation.

Suddenly he stopped barking and trotted forward a few paces, then,
with ears bent forward and front paw raised, seemed to be listening
intently. Suddenly he burst into a chorus of wild barks and then
crouched down, growling savagely, with his eyes fixed on a clump of
bushes.

The boys, who were just rounding a rock and could not see Don on
ahead, started forward eagerly to find the cause of his uneasiness,
but stopped abruptly as two men armed with heavy clubs sprang out
from the shelter of the bushes with the evident intention of doing
for the dog then and there. In a flash it came to Jack that these
were the two men whose plot they had overheard. Suppose they had seen
the Scouts the day before and, taking it for granted they would warn
Flannigan, had lain in wait for them here in this lonely spot?

As the boys were unarmed, discretion was the better part of valor,
so, calling to Don, they doubled behind a couple of huge rocks and
made for a cave that they had come across on one of their scouting
expeditions a few days before.

Meanwhile Don had sprung at the man nearest him, who happened to be
Lavine, and had caught him by the leg. Lifting his cudgel high in the
air, the man would have felled him if he had not heard Jack’s command
to the dog to “come along.” Quickly the dog dodged and started off
in the direction his master had taken. By that time the second
ex-lumberjack, O’Brien, had caught sight of the boys and had started
off hotly in pursuit. Don knew that the boys’ safety depended on the
time they had to get away, so he raced off after O’Brien. When he
reached him, he snapped at his legs and hands, while the man, cursing
and swearing horribly, aimed blow after blow at his tormentor’s head.
Dodging the blows easily, Don watched the boys until they disappeared
through the trees.

As Lavine came running up--Don’s teeth had only gone through his
trousers--the faithful dog thought it was about time he left, so he
made off as fast as his legs could carry him in the direction of the
camp.

The cave that the boys were bound for had all the characteristics of
some wild animal’s home. When the Scouts had come across it first
they had been impressed by the fetid odor that filled it and the
bones of small creatures that were strewn all over the floor. Now,
as the boys rushed along, their one thought was whether or not the
animal would be there.

Running, slipping, sliding and stumbling, they made their way down
the steep ravine, dodged behind a boulder and came in sight of the
bushes that hid the entrance to the cave.

“Quick!” Jack hissed, pulling aside the bushes. “I don’t think
there’s anything in there, but if there is, we’ll have to take our
chance!”

In less time than it takes to tell, the boys were inside and the
bushes were once more in place. With hearts threatening to jump out
of their mouths, they listened for the sound of footsteps outside the
cave. Pretty soon they came. Heavy, ponderous footsteps they were,
and they seemed to be nearing the mouth of the cave.

“I don’t see where the young deevils could have gone,” they heard the
Frenchman say, “yet zey have disappear as if ze earth is open an’
swallow zem up.”

“I wish it had!” the Irishman replied, grimly. “More be taken if Oi
could oncet get ahold of the spalpeens it wouldn’t be so very long
before they’d be kivered with airth.”

The boys shuddered as they thought of the murderous attack they
had so narrowly escaped, and it was with a long sigh of relief
that they finally realized that their pursuers knew nothing of
their hiding-place. After a short time spent in fruitless search,
Lavine and O’Brien started off, grumbling and cursing, to scour the
surrounding woods.

The boys had been in as much apprehension because of the possible
return of the occupant of the cave as they had been because of the
presence of the men. So now, when one danger was removed, they had
time to think of the other. As soon as they thought the men were
far enough away for them to venture out, Tom, who was nearest the
opening, looked out to see if the way were really clear.

He sprang back in alarm as a great pile of dirt and stones came
hurtling down the mountain side with a roar like thunder and with a
force that made the ground tremble. The great mass was piled high
before the opening of the cave, shutting out every vestige of light
and air.




                            CHAPTER VIII

                     THE BOY SCOUTS TO THE FORE


“Jack, Jack, where are you?” Tom called wildly, groping around in the
inky blackness for his friend.

“Here, old man!” Jack replied from his corner. “I thought from the
roar a lion had come to interview us. What has happened, anyway?”

“What has happened? Why, man, it seems as if the whole mountain has
slid down to cover the cave. It’s shut out all the air, and we can’t
breathe very long with the little we have in here. Why, Jack, do you
realize that unless someone finds us in a hurry we will die in this
horrible smelling hole like rats in a trap?”

“It sure is some tight place, old fellow, but what we’ve got to do
now is to brace up and think of some way to get out.”

“Oh, yes, that sounds all right, but how are we going to do it? Can
we dig our way through rocks and dirt with our fingers? Can we change
into moles and burrow our way out underground? I tell you, Jack,
we’re goners unless somebody discovers us within the next hour at the
most.”

“Tom, Tom, don’t talk like that! Brace up and be a man! If we’ve
got to face Death, let’s meet him bravely, as a true Scout should.
Besides,” he added after a moment’s thought, “don’t you remember the
bones that we saw scattered around here the other day? Let’s hunt
around and see if we can find some. They might possibly help us to
dig our way out.”

The boys searched desperately for a bone big enough to be of service
to them. Finally they found a couple that they thought might serve
and they set to work fearfully to see what they could do.

Slowly but surely they dug through the mass of dirt and stones and
they were just beginning to hope that they might succeed when they
received an unexpected check. They had cleared away a good part of
the debris, but when they started again after a moment’s rest they
found that they could go no farther, for the bones struck upon a
solid rock.

Mad with disappointment and rage, the boys threw themselves upon the
rock, tore at it with their nails and struck at it with their bare
hands until they were all raw and bleeding. Finally, exhausted and
weakened by the lack of air, they threw themselves, panting, on the
ground where they lay unable to move for a few minutes.

Jack was the first to recover himself and, sitting up, he put his
hand to his head, which seemed to be whirling around dizzily, and
said sharply:

“Come, this will never do! Here when we need what little brains we
have, we use them by acting like fools. If I could only think! If I
could--only--think,” he muttered, while his head dropped wearily to
his knee.

“Jack, Jack!” Tom cried, springing to his feet. “I can’t stand it!
I’ll go mad if I have to stay here much longer! Can’t you hear the
birds singing out there? Can’t you hear the murmuring of the brook?
Can’t you smell the air sweet with the glorious sunshine filtering
through the leaves and touching all the flowers with gold? Why,
man, the world’s alive out there, while in here the darkness--awful
darkness is bearing me down, crushing me--” and with a shuddering sob
he sank down and buried his face in his hands, trying to shut out
that impenetrable wall that seemed to be closing in upon him on all
sides.

“Listen a minute, Tom, old friend, old comrade!” Jack said gently,
soothingly, reaching over to put an arm about Tom’s shoulders. “We
forgot all about Don,--our Don who has never failed any of us in a
tight place. He must have escaped from those lumbermen all right or
they would have said something about having done for him when they
came to look for us here. Well, now, suppose he has escaped, what
would he naturally do first? Why, he’d go straight to the camp of
course and get the fellows here to help us. If he did that, we may
expect them any time now. All we have to do is to wait.”

At Jack’s calm, matter-of-fact tone, Tom gathered himself together
and said frankly, “Jack, you make me heartily ashamed of myself! From
now on I’ll try to act like a man and a Scout!”

So the boys, encouraged by the faint ray of hope, sat side by side
to wait for whatever might be in store for them. Only once, as the
air got thicker and they found it harder to breathe, Tom muttered,
“I only hope they come soon!” And with that they fell into a sort of
stupor from which they aroused themselves with great difficulty from
time to time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile Don’s one thought and aim had been to reach camp and bring
help to his friends. At first he had trouble in striking the trail
and had to go way back to the scene of the attack before he finally
found it. Then with nose to the ground and with eyes that turned
neither to the right nor to the left, he trotted steadily along.
There was no rabbit in that whole wide expanse of forest that could
have tempted him to leave the trail that day, for the well-being,
perhaps the lives, of his two best friends were at stake.

Once he lost the trail and for a few terrible seconds ran about
wildly in vain search of it. Finally he picked it up again on the
other side of the brook and started on, faster than before to make up
for lost time.

Another time a thorn stuck into his foot and, although it hurt
him cruelly, he never once faltered or stopped, but only limped on
unflinchingly.

Ay, Don, Old Sam spoke very truly when he said, “Ye have the look o’
my Rover,” and he might have added, “an’ the good, brave heart o’
him, too!”

Although it seemed ages to the tired, lame dog, it was in reality
only a very short time before he reached the camp. Luckily the boys
had come back from their scouting and were talking over their various
experiences. As the dog limped painfully up to them Harry exclaimed,
“Say, fellows, what’s the matter with Don?”

“Looks as if he had something in his foot,” Dick commented. “Come
here, old fellow, and let me see what’s the matter.”

Don came up willingly and held up his paw to be examined. Impatiently
he waited while Dick, with many expressions of sympathy, took out the
long thorn and gently bound up the injured paw.

“Poor old boy!” one of the Scouts said, as he patted the dog’s shaggy
head, “it must have pained you terribly! But where are Jack and Tom?
It’s not like Jack to leave Don to come on alone especially when he
knew he was hurt,” he added, turning to the boys.

At this Don, who had been waiting impatiently while his foot was
being doctored, ran to the edge of the woods and stood there looking
back at the Scouts pleadingly.

“What does he want?” asked a Tenderfoot Scout, who did not know Don
as well as the rest.

“He wants us to follow him. I’m afraid, fellows, that something’s
happened to Jack and Tom. And I, for one, mean to find out what it is
and mighty quick, too!” said Pete Stubbs.

“We’re with you!” came a chorus of hearty voices.

By this time Mr. Durland had come up and asked the cause of the
excitement. He listened to the recital of their fears with a very
grave face. In a moment the boys were flying around everywhere to
carry out his directions.

“Some of you boys go and get anything that you can find in the lodge
or out of it,” he said, “to dig with. There are three or four old
shovels there that may come in handy and a lot of trowels that we use
for digging up specimens of flowers. Hurry, boys!”

In a short time the Scouts were ready to start, and Don, forgetting
all about his sore foot, led them rapidly along the trail.

Dick turned to Mr. Durland and asked him how he meant to use the
shovels.

“There is great danger in this part of the country on account of
the landslides that frequently occur,” the Scout-Master explained.
“Of course, they are not usually on a very large scale. They are
very often caused by a loose rock starting to fall from the top of a
mountain and so loosening masses of stones and dirt.”

“But do you suppose that the boys could possibly be caught in one of
them?” Dick asked, while his face grew white at the very thought.

“There is a chance, of course,” Mr. Durland replied anxiously, “and
because of that chance, I thought it was best to bring the shovels
along.”

“Be prepared!” Dick murmured, and felt a curious tightening of his
heartstrings as he thought of his comrades in distress.

Finally Don brought them to the clump of bushes behind which O’Brien
and Levine had been hidden. The boys noticed how the ground had been
trampled down and the bushes torn aside, and at once it flashed
through their minds that the boys might have been attacked. Here Don
seemed to lose the trail, but the Scouts now readily picked it up,
trained for trailing as they were, and they started on again with
redoubled speed.

A dozen wild conjectures chased each other through the boys’
bewildered heads. Suppose the two lumbermen had learned of the boys’
intention to warn Flannigan! Suppose they had waylaid Jack and Tom!
Would the boys stand up to them? If they did, would they win? If they
had been attacked on their way to the lumber camp, every Scout felt
sure that the boys would do their best to avoid the plotters and
deliver their message. On the other hand, if they had been coming
back, it was more than likely that the boys would stand up to the two
ruffians. If this last were so, what had been the outcome? As nobody
was able to answer this, all they could do was to follow Don, now
plunging on far ahead.

As they neared the cave some of the boys recognized their
surroundings. Then a new fear came to torment them. What if the boys
had run to the cave for shelter and had found the unknown inhabitants
there?

In another minute they had scrambled down the ravine, rounded the
rocks and had come into full view of the place where the cave had
been. At the sight that met their eyes they stopped short and fairly
gasped with astonishment and dismay.

They all looked to Mr. Durland for an explanation of this state of
affairs.

“Boys,” said the Scout-Master in a strained, unnatural voice, “you
say that there was a cave in the side of that mountain?”

“Yes, sir,” said Bob. “We examined it thoroughly the other day.”

“Then I am afraid that you will all have a chance to test every ounce
of courage and fortitude you possess to-day. Boys,” he said, and his
voice shook a little in spite of himself, “our Tom and Jack are
almost certainly in that cave and are suffering--perhaps dying--for
lack of air! Are you ready, now, to get them out?”

The boys’ answer was a deafening shout, and, snatching up their
shovels and trowels, set to work with a grim do-it-or-die expression
on their young faces that did Mr. Durland’s heart good. In earnest
they applied themselves to their heart-breaking task, opening their
lips for nothing except to call the boys’ names from time to time.

       *       *       *       *       *

What was that voice? It seemed so far away--as if someone were
calling from a great distance. What was it they were saying? Was
it “Jack?” No, it was “Tom.” Why were they calling them? Where
were they? What was that strange feeling in his head, that dizzy
sensation, that made him feel as if he were spinning around and
around? Had the lumbermen caught them after all? No, that could not
be it. Now he had it! They were smothering to death in this loathsome
hole! So, by painful degrees, Jack drew himself back from the dark
abyss of oblivion and came to a full realization of his whereabouts.

“Tom, Tom,” he cried, shaking his friend fiercely, “they’ve come,
they’ve come! Do you hear them?” and he called out in as loud a voice
as he could again and again.

When Tom came to himself, he added his shouts to Jack’s and they
finally succeeded in making themselves heard by the straining
workers outside. With glad cries of encouragement, the Scouts went to
work once more with redoubled energy. In five minutes, that seemed
like five ages to the gasping boys inside, a tiny place was cleared
before the entrance of the cave, letting in a breath of cool, fresh
air. In another half hour the cave mouth was entirely free and the
two half-smothered boys were helped out by their anxious friends.
With a sharp cry Tom clapped his hands over his eyes to keep out the
dazzling light.

The Scouts crowded eagerly about the two boys, scarcely able to
restrain their delight. They patted them all over to see if there
were any broken bones, shook their hands and overwhelmed them with
questions.

Then it was Don’s turn. Limping from the wound in his foot, he came
slowly over the pile of dirt and stones and looked wistfully up into
his master’s face.

“Don, darling old Don!” Jack cried, hiding his face in the dog’s
rough coat. “Then they didn’t hurt you, beauty, did they?”

Then the boys learned all that Don had done for them, and if they had
loved him before, they idolized him now.

Of course Jack and Tom were too exhausted by their nerve-racking
experience to continue their journey to the lumber camp, so Mr.
Durland chose Dick in their place, and with the good wishes of the
boys, he started off through the trees.

On the way home, the boys could not hold their wild spirits in check.
They chased rabbits and squirrels, shouted to each other, played
leapfrog and sang rollicking college songs. Only Don walked soberly
along beside Jack, too happy to leave his master’s side, and his eyes
alone told a story more eloquent than words.




                             CHAPTER IX

                     DICK CRAWFORD GIVES WARNING


It was an ideal summer day, and Dick Crawford, going through the
woods toward the logging camp, could not help thinking what a lucky
fellow he was.

“It’s worth a million,” he thought, “just to be a Boy Scout, and to
be alive on a day like this.”

Dick was no poet, but if he had been, he could have written an ode
to the wonderful, mystic forest. The narrow path he traversed was
closely hemmed in by giant trees, covered with moss and, at times, he
could see the glistening of a waxy bunch of mistletoe high up on some
old oak.

Finally his mind came around to all the exciting events of the last
few days, and he became sober.

When would the miscreants be brought to book? It did not seem
possible that they could long remain at large, but then the North
Woods are very extensive, and offer thousands of hiding places to
experienced woodsmen like the discharged lumberjacks.

At this thought his heart sank, but Dick was not one to worry much
about things he could not help, nor to cross a bridge until he came
to it.

So he dismissed all forebodings from his mind and set up a shrill
whistle that caused the forest to echo and the squirrels to sit up in
front of the entrances to their homes and chatter angrily.

He looked upward toward the sun, which he could at times glimpse
through the thick foliage, and, judging from its position that it
must be growing late, hurried his footsteps. He was soon in sight of
the camp, but could see no sign of life about it. As he drew nearer
the rough log houses, he shouted, “Hello, there! Hello! Hello!”

“Hello, yourself!” responded a voice from the cook’s house, and a
moment later the tangled red head belonging to the owner of the voice
was stuck out of the doorway.

“Oh, it’s you, is it, Dick?” he continued in a more friendly voice,
as he recognized the Assistant Scout-Master. “Well, what can I do you
for?”

Dick smiled at this characteristic question, and replied, “Why, I
wanted to see the foreman, Mr. Flannigan. Where is he, do you know?”

“Search me!” replied Harry, with a careless shrug of his shoulders.
“But say, wait a minute!” he exclaimed. “He did say something about
it, too. I remember now. He has gone about fifty miles up north to
look over a piece of uncut timber land there, and I remember he said
he would be back before the last of this month. But what did you want
him for, anyway?” inquisitively.

Dick thought a minute, and then decided to tell Harry all about the
happenings of the last few days. He knew that Harry was friendly to
the Scouts, and would help them all he could in bringing the outlaws
to justice.

Another thing that he did not know, but which was an important factor
in the chase later on, was that Harry disliked the outlaws heartily.
They had often plagued him, and made his hard life even harder, and
he had often wanted to get even with them. So it is possible that
Dick could not have taken a wiser course than that which he now
decided to pursue.

Accordingly he proceeded to detail the happenings of the last few
days to the attentive cookee, who could not help interrupting him at
times with expressions of surprise and indignation.

“Well, what do you know about that?” he asked at the conclusion of
Dick’s recital. “Ain’t them two about the most underhanded crooks
goin’? I only hope I can do somethin’ to help put them in jail,” and
here the expression of his eyes boded no good to the outlaws.

Dick perceived that he had gained an ally worth having, and was
pleased accordingly.

“I know that the others will be as pleased as I am to know that you
are going to help all you can,” Dick replied cordially to the other’s
outburst. “Now, Harry, you know from what I have told you that both
Lavine and O’Brien will go to any lengths to get even with Flannigan,
and also with us, whom they now suspect to be their enemies.

“We have reason to believe that they will do all they can to waylay
the foreman, steal the money that he will have on his person, and
either kill or seriously injure him.

“Now, what we want you to do is to notify us at our camp if the
foreman is not back before the last day of the month. 