The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Boy Scout Pathfinders, by Robert Maitland


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: The Boy Scout Pathfinders
       Or, Jack Danby's Best Adventure


Author: Robert Maitland



Release Date: April 14, 2021  [eBook #65084]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BOY SCOUT PATHFINDERS***


E-text prepared by Juliet Sutherland, Susan Carr, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team (https://www.pgdp.net)



Transcriber’s note:

      Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

      Text enclosed by equal signs is in bold face (=bold=).




Boy Scout Series Volume 6

THE BOY SCOUT PATHFINDERS

Or

Jack Danby’s Best Adventure

by

MAJOR ROBERT MAITLAND

C






The Saalfield Publishing Company
Chicago      Akron, Ohio      New York

Copyright 1912
by
The Saalfield Publishing Co.




                              CONTENTS


                                                                   PAGE
      I  HO! FOR THE ADIRONDACKS                                     3
     II  THE LOGGING CAMP                                           12
    III  THE OLD SNAKE HUNTER                                       26
     IV  THE FIGHT                                                  35
      V  THE BEAR’S SURPRISE PARTY                                  42
     VI  THE PLOT                                                   50
    VII  TRAPPED IN THE CAVE                                        58
   VIII  THE BOY SCOUTS TO THE FORE                                 66
     IX  DICK CRAWFORD GIVES WARNING                                77
      X  “BUSY AS BEAVERS”                                          87
     XI  THE BOG                                                   100
    XII  OLD SAM TO THE RESCUE                                     108
   XIII  THE BROKEN TRESTLE                                        117
    XIV  THE SAVING OF THE TRAIN                                   124
     XV  A STRANGE DUEL                                            132
    XVI  TOO LATE!                                                 139
   XVII  JACK’S RUN FOR LIFE                                       148
  XVIII  BALKED OF THEIR PREY                                      154




                      The Boy Scout Pathfinders




                              CHAPTER I

                       HO! FOR THE ADIRONDACKS


“Ding-dong! Ding-dong! Ding-dong! Ding-dong!” clashed the great bell
on the locomotive, and with much creaking and clanking and letting
off of steam, with iron scraping on iron and one last, long drawn
whistle of the air-brakes, the train came slowly to a stop.

As if vying with the locomotive to see which could make the greater
noise, a score or more of khaki-clad boys came tumbling to the
platform of the little mountain station, amid whoops and cat-calls
and shouts of, “Here we are!” “Hurrah for the Adirondacks!” “Say,
fellows, this is the backwoods and no mistake!”

And then in rapid succession came the further inquiries:

“Which way do we go? Up this road?”

“See that big rock away down there? I’ll race you to it!”

The big collie Don, not to be behindhand when there was any noise or
capering to be done, and more glad than anyone else to be released
from the many hours of close confinement in that awful baggage car,
ran wildly about, darting in and out between the boys’ feet, at the
imminent danger of upsetting the whole procession, and added his
joyful bark to the general noise and confusion.

A couple of boys did go down, but were at once on their feet and
after Don, who--knowing and wise dog that he was!--understood well
that his pursuers were his loyal friends, as he was theirs, and felt
no fear, but ran and doubled, and ran on again, treating it all as
the very best kind of a joke.

A half hour of racing and tearing to given points and back again,
and impromptu games of leapfrog and follow my leader gave vent to
the bubbling spirits held in check during the long journey and the
Scouts, once more looking like self-controlled boys instead of
cavorting wild Indians, settled down to a walk.

This was the opportunity for which Mr. Durland had been waiting to
discuss plans for the season’s camp.

The call to camp had been sent out so late that most of the Scouts
knew little beside the location and duration of the camp; and now
Scout-Master Durland proceeded to enlighten them.

Late in the autumn of the previous year Mr. Scott, a very
wealthy gentleman, had purchased a large section of land in the
Adirondacks--many, many acres of ground, nearly a whole county, in
fact.

As it was late in the season, he had been forced to postpone the
inspection and surveying of the tract until the next year, but in
order to be ready early in the summer, he had had a stout log house
erected, to serve as a shelter for whomever should be sent out for
the survey, and after that as a temporary hunting lodge until a
larger and more elaborate one should be built.

Mr. Scott and the Scout-Master were warm friends, and knowing the
proposed plans for the new lands, Mr. Durland had suggested making
the work the object of the Boy Scouts’ summer camp. Mr. Scott, a firm
believer and warm advocate of the Boy Scout movement, had readily
consented.

Because there was more or less danger in this region of encountering
a bear, or even a wildcat, and as a rattlesnake was not altogether an
impossibility, it was thought advisable to use the lodge as sleeping
quarters instead of the usual tents or lean-tos. A large shack would
have to be built for a mess tent, and a place to store provisions.

This tract of newly purchased land was in a section uninhabited for
a distance of many miles around, as far as had been ascertained. The
county town was twelve miles away--not too far for an occasional
trip for provisions, but as the mountain roads were steep and rough,
making the going very difficult, an unusual amount and variety of
provisions had been sent with the Troop. One or possibly two trips
during the season would be all that would be necessary to keep the
camp well stocked.

So much for the camp-building and welfare. Now for an explanation of
the work laid out for the Scouts by Mr. Scott.

They were to be pathfinders in this hitherto almost totally
unexplored region. They were to locate springs, brooks, streams,
lakes, perhaps rivers; note the kinds of fish to be found in these
waters and in what numbers; make lists of the different trees, birds
and animals to be found upon it, and to group and classify them.
They were to ascertain the nature of the soil in different sections,
explore by-paths, and outline the best and safest and shortest routes
to the section where any desired water or soil or bird or animal was
to be found.

Beside all this, they were to become so familiar with the country for
five miles around the camp as to be able to guide any person at any
time, day or night.

A great work, surely, and one which, if well and satisfactorily
handled, might well cause any boy’s heart to leap with pride.

The Scouts, sober enough now, had listened with absorbed interest to
all that Mr. Durland had said. At the mention of bears and bobcats,
every boy had felt his heart thrill. Was there a possibility of a
real encounter with one of these animals which, when seen even in
the zoo, had been terrifyingly fierce? Mr. Durland had said that the
possibility was so small that it was hardly worth considering, but
that there was even the faintest chance was enough to make your heart
beat faster.

However, when he spoke so earnestly of the great work outlined for
them, and showed the eager Scouts what splendid opportunities for
mental growth it would open to them, and what a part this knowledge
they were sure to gain would play in their future success in life,
each Scout determined to do his very best and to make the most of
every opportunity.

So, at last, just at high noon, they came to the place where they
were to pitch their new camp, and again the excitement broke out.

Catching sight of the log house or lodge, with one accord they made
for it, and in a great deal less time than it takes to tell it, every
nook and corner of that house was explored.

They saw with satisfaction that the building was very strong, and
that the many windows, beside being set with very thick glass, were
provided with perforated shutters of inch-thick solid oak wood,
closing from the inside. Ben Hoover expressed the general sentiment
when he said, “Those shutters certainly look good to me!”

Mr. Durland’s voice reminded them that if everything was to be made
shipshape in the new camp before nightfall, there was no time now to
play, and from that moment the camp was a busy scene.

The two Scouts who were detailed as cooks were soon busy making
a small fireplace on which to cook their dinner. Placing three
stones together, they laid between them some whittled shavings for
kindlings, applied a match and, as the fire commenced to burn, they
placed over it some twigs and dry wood, quantities of which lay
scattered about, and soon had a fine fire over which to place their
frying-pan.

In the meantime the hamper was opened and when, in shorter time than
you could have thought possible, the call to dinner was sounded,
everyone came running. No one needed a second call, and the way that
bacon and crisp fried potatoes and cornbread disappeared was a marvel.

Dinner over, one small squad was detailed to unpack, while all the
rest were pressed in